# Multi-angle feature enhancement for multi-defect category insulator defect detection in the wild
Small insulator defects in complex backgrounds are poorly detected during inspections by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on transmission lines. Meanwhile, many insulator datasets have a single type of insulator defect, making it difficult to meet the requirements of practical inspection tasks. To address the above issues, we propose a more balanced insulator defect detection network (BDD-Net). First, we propose a multi-angle feature enhancement module (MAFE), which allows for a larger receptive field, enabling the network to accurately localize and identify small-sized insulator defects. Next, we construct a new multi-scale bidirectional feature fusion module (MBFF) for more efficient and faster feature fusion. In addition, we introduce wise intersection over union (WIoU) as the localization loss function of BDD-Net to reduce the impact of low-quality samples on training. Finally, we craft a dataset containing one insulator string category and four different insulator defect categories. The experimental results demonstrate that BDD-Net achieves a 1 percentage point improvement in detection accuracy over the YOLOv5, reaching 98.2%. Meanwhile, with significantly reduced parameters and computational costs, BDD-Net attains 52.3% faster detection speed. This optimized balance between detection accuracy and processing efficiency makes BDD-Net particularly suitable for practical transmission line insulator defect inspection.
